Russo-Turkish War^1877^Russia, Ottoman Empire, Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgarian Legion^The Russian-led coalition won the war, pushing the Ottomans back all the way to the gates of Constantinople, leading to the intervention of the western European great powers.
The Congress of Berlin^1878^Represented at the meeting were Europe's then six great powers: Russia, Great Britain, France, Austria-Hungary, Italy and Germany the Ottomans, and four Balkan states: Greece, Serbia, Romania and Montenegro.^The leader of the congress, German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck, sought to stabilise the Balkans, reduce the role of the defeated Ottoman Empire in the region, and balance the distinct interests of Britain, Russia and Austria-Hungary. He also wanted to avoid domination of the Balkans by Russia or the formation of a Greater Bulgaria, and to keep Constantinople in Ottoman hands.
World War II^1939^Joseph Stalin, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Winston Churchill Chiang Kai-Shek, Adolf Hitler and Bunito Mussolini^forming two opposing military alliances: the Allies and the Axis powers. In a total war directly involving more than 100 million personnel from more than 30 countries, the major participants threw their entire economic, industrial, and scientific capabilities behind the war effort, blurring the distinction between civilian and military resources.Balkan Wars^1912^Ottoman Empire, Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria, Serbia, Greece, Montenegro, Italian volunteers, Russia^Balkan Wars, Two military conflicts that deprived the Ottoman Empire of almost all its remaining territory in Europe. In the First Balkan War, the Balkan League defeated the Ottoman Empire, which, under the terms of the peace treaty, lost Macedonia and Albania. The Second Balkan War broke out after Serbia, Greece, and Romania quarreled with Bulgaria over the division of their joint conquests in Macedonia. Bulgaria was defeated, and Greece and Serbia divided up most of Macedonia between themselves. The wars heightened tensions in the Balkans and helped spark World War I.
Balkan Wars^1912^Ottoman Empire, Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria, Serbia, Greece, Montenegro, Russia^Balkan Wars, Two military conflicts that deprived the Ottoman Empire of almost all its remaining territory in Europe. In the First Balkan War, the Balkan League defeated the Ottoman Empire, which, under the terms of the peace treaty, lost Macedonia and Albania. The Second Balkan War broke out after Serbia, Greece, and Romania quarreled with Bulgaria over the division of their joint conquests in Macedonia. Bulgaria was defeated, and Greece and Serbia divided up most of Macedonia between themselves. The wars heightened tensions in the Balkans and helped spark World War I.
The April uprising^1876^Bulgarian revolutionaries, Ottoman Empire^The April Uprising broke out prematurely was violently put down. The atrocities committed against the civilian population by irregular Turkish forces, including the massacre of 15,000 Bulgarians near Plovdiv, increased the Bulgarian desire for independence.
World War I^1914^France, British Empire, Russian Empire, Serbia, Belgium, Japan, Montenegro, Italy, United States, Germany Empire, Austria-Hungary and others.^World War I, also known as the Great War, began in 1914 after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria. His murder catapulted into a war across Europe that lasted until 1918.